# The System

At its core, utodocs is a dynamic document bundler for modern applications. When utodocs processes your application documentation, it internally builds a table of contents graph which maps every markdown file in your project and generates http link's which point into your application GitHub repository.

## Table of Contents

The table of contents for your documentation will follow the structure of files and folders within the documentation folder. This is the entry point of utodocs which indicates which files to fetch and display from the GitHub repo.

By default utodocs looks for a folder called `docs` whithin the root path of your application setting the entry point for your documentation.

Example folder structure

```
|-- docs
    |-- 1 Welcome
        |-- 1.1 Welcome.MD
        |-- 1.2 Readme.MD
        ...

    |-- 2 Installation
        |-- 2.1 How To.MD
        ...
```

It is advisible to prefix any folder or files in your documents folder with numbers as the web-app navigation system will be sorted acordingly after the number system and provides the user with a sidebar navigation.

## The Developer

After understanding the initial step above the developer should worry only about the content of their documentation which needs to be written in .MD files with markdown syntax. We assembled a quick reference guide entitled `Markdown Cheatsheet` which offers the developer a quick starting point to markdown syntax.

## The Build Process

We chose to perform the build process within a development pipeline but it can be performed from the local machine as easily by starting the web-application in developing mode. By default utodocs will fetch documentation files from GitHub repo under the `develop` branch which is dynamically changed to `main` branch while under production mode   

## Viewing The Documentation

The created documentation can only be viewed after it's been uploaded to GitHub repository as utodocs will read, transform and display the pages straight from GitHub. _This is due because of a limitation in the angular framework to read files from local machines and might change in the future_. After the file's were succesfully pushed to a repo simply open the web-application, on a local machine or cloud provider machine, and enjoy the documentation.
