## Before We Dive In

This guide explains how to set up your environment for Utodocs and includes information about prerequisites, creating an initial workspace, and running that app locally to verify your setup.

## NodeJS

Utodocs rrequires a current, active LTS, or maintenance LTS version of Node.js. For more information on installing Node.js, see <a href="https://nodejs.org/en/" target="_blank">nodejs.org</a>. If you are unsure what version of Node.js runs on your system, run `node -v` in a terminal window.

## NPM package manager

Angular app, and Utodocs application depend on npm packages for many features and functions. To download and install npm packages, you need an npm package manager. This guide uses the <a href="https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-install" target="_blank">npm client</a> command line interface, which is installed with Node.js by default. To check that you have the npm client installed, run `npm -v` in a terminal window.

## Angular CLI

You use the Angular CLI to create projects, generate application and library code, and perform a variety of ongoing development tasks such as testing, bundling, and deployment.

To install the Angular CLI, open a terminal window and run the following command:

```javascript
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

## Docker Desktop

Concourse pipeline makes use of Docker to spin up a cluster and run the pipeline server. Docker Desktop is required to be installed on the local machine, for more information about the installation process go <a href="https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/" target="_blank">here</a>.

## Vesrsion Control

Utodocs is dependent of a version control provider, the automation was build and designed to work with GitHub repositories although other version control providers may be used with small adjustments. To follow along please create an account to GitHub <a href="https://github.com/" target="_blank">here</a> if one is not available.

## Cloud Provider

The application is designed to be published to a cloud provider and although any cloud provider can be user the following documentation will use Heroku as the PaaS provider of choice. You can create an account <a href="https://signup.heroku.com/" target="_blank">here</a>. 
