# Concourse Pipeline with Docker

Concourse is distributed as a single concourse binary, making it easy to run just about anywhere, especially with Docker.

## Running with docker-compose

The `docker-compose.yaml` in this repo will get you up and running with the latest version Concourse. To use it you'll first need to execute `docker-compose up -d` to start Concourse in the background:

```javascript
docker-compose up -d
```

Concourse will be running at localhost:8080. You can log in with the username/password as test/test.

If things seem to be going wrong, check the logs for any errors:

```javascript
docker-compose logs -f
```

## Install fly CLI

Install fly CLI by downloading it from the web UI (localhost:8080) and target your local Concourse as the test user

## Login to Concourse

Concourse will be running at http://localhost:8080. You can log in with the username/password as test/test.

```javascript
    fly -t utodocs login -c http://localhost:8080 -u test -p test
```

## Git Credentials

Before we set a new pipeline we will need to add a credential file into `root/ci/cred/` called `cred.yaml` with the following information:

```javascript
private_key: |
      -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
       lonnNgUMBERandLETTERS...
      -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----

username: git user name or email
password: password
```

The pipeline makes use of this credentials to clone and update the GitHub repo. 
<div class="markdown">

    <div class="warning">
        <h6 class="tip__prefix">the automation</h6>
        <p>
        Also remember to add the filepath to the .gitignore file so the credentials file doesnt get pushed to the repository exposing sensitive information to the public.
        </p>
    </div>
</div>



## Set the Pipeline

Now we are ready to set the development pipeline:

```javascript
    fly -t utodocs set-pipeline --pipeline utodocs --config ./ci/pipeline.yaml --load-vars-from ./ci/cred/cred.yaml -n
```

## View the pipeline

Navigate again to http://localhost:8080/ and view the newly created pipeline.

## Pipeline Tasks

all the pipeline tasks are within the `pipeline.yaml` file, this is the place we can add or remove steps. By default utodocs comes with few steps activated like running unit tests or pushing the latest changes to the main GitHub branch from develop.

## Destroy Pipeline

To delete the pipeline use the following command

```javascript
    fly -t utodocs destroy-pipeline -p utodocs
```
The word "pipeline" is all the rage in CI these days, so being more specific about this term is kind of important; Concourse's pipelines are significantly different from the rest. 

Pipelines are built around Resources, which represent all external state, and Jobs, which interact with them. Concourse pipelines represent a dependency flow, kind of like distributed Makefiles. Pipelines are designed to be self-contained so as to minimize server-wide configuration. Maximizing portability also mitigates risk, making it easier for projects to recover from CI disasters.