# Technologies Used

The following section of this documentation is concearned with listing the technologies used within the project itself and does not necesarily reflects a prerequisite in using the system.

## NodeJS

Is an open-source JavaScript runtime environment which allows programs written in JavaScript to run outside a browser, for example on a server or on a local machine environment. The project will make use of the NodeJS technology to access operating system resources and run the JavaScript files to parse and build the documentation and web application. The project will also use NodeJS to set up a back-end environment within the pipeline where most of the code documentation automation system will reside.

## JavaScript

Is a popular programming language also known as the scripting language of the web. The project will make use of the JavaScript language as it is light-weight, high level language and makes it very fast to build software projects. The project will have a web-based component to display the web application and as the web browsers mostly supports JavaScript language will make it more appropriate to use.

## Angular

Angular is a TypeScript-based open-source web application framework led by the Angular Team at Google and by a community of individuals and corporations. Angular is a complete rewrite from the same team that built AngularJS.

## TypeScript

TypeScript is a programming language developed and maintained by Microsoft. It is a strict syntactical superset of JavaScript and adds optional static typing to the language. TypeScript is designed for the development of large applications and transcompiles to JavaScript.

## HTML and CSS Grid

Is the foundation of web applications, HTML stands for Hypertext-Markup-Language and it is designed to work in a browser and display web pages. Usually, it is assisted by CSS technology to improve the design of the webpages. This project will make use of CSS Grid which is a newer technology and can be used to create complex responsive layouts with more consistency between the browsers.

## .MD File Types

The project will make use of GitHub’s standard text files which is .MD or markdown files. It is plain text which include symbol to indicate special text like title or code text and it is used widely across repositories. The system will make use of this filed to parse its content and transform it into a HTML page with the special text indicated by symbol parsed accordingly to display it as a title or code block within our HTML document.

## Docker
Docker is a set of platform as a service products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers. Containers are isolated from one another and bundle their own software, libraries and configuration files; they can communicate with each other through well-defined channels.

## Concourse CI/CD

It is an open-source software which runs within a Docker container to build an automated system and manipulate code files, test, or deploy applications to the web. The project will make use of the Concourse technology to set up a pipeline between local environment and remote repository, pipeline in which the system will gathers source documents and code, read, parse and test and finally assembly all the pieces of the application and deploy it to the cloud.

## Heroku Cloud

Is a cloud platform as a service supporting several programming languages. One of the first cloud platforms, Heroku has been in development since June 2007, when it supported only the Ruby programming language, but now supports Java, Node.js, Scala, Clojure, Python, PHP, and Go. For this reason, Heroku is said to be a polyglot platform as it has features for a developer to build, run and scale applications in a similar manner across most languages.
