# Markdown
The overriding design goal for Markdown’s formatting syntax is to make it as readable as possible. The idea is that a Markdown-formatted document should be publishable as-is, as plain text, without looking like it’s been marked up with tags or formatting instructions. While Markdown’s syntax has been influenced by several existing text-to-HTML filters, the single biggest source of inspiration for Markdown’s syntax is the format of plain text email.


## Cheatsheet
This is intended as a quick reference and showcase. For more complete info, see [John Gruber's](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) original spec and the [Github-flavored](https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github) Markdown info page.


### Headings
To create a heading, add number signs (#) in front of a word or phrase. The number of number signs you use should correspond to the heading level. For example, to create a heading level three (<h3>), use three number signs (e.g., ### My Header).

| Markdown               | HTML                     |
|------------------------|--------------------------|
| # Heading level 1      | <h1>Heading level 1</h1> |
| ## Heading level 2     | <h2>Heading level 2</h2> |
| ### Heading level 3    | <h3>Heading level 3</h3> |
| #### Heading level 4   | <h4>Heading level 4</h4> |
| ##### Heading level 5  | <h5>Heading level 5</h5> |
| ###### Heading level 6 | <h6>Heading level 6</h6> |


### Paragraphs
To create paragraphs, use a blank line to separate one or more lines of text.




I really like using Markdown.

I think I'll use it to format 
all of my documents from now on.



## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Aaron Swartz deserves a tremendous amount of credit for his feedback on the design of Markdown’s formatting syntax. Markdown is much better thanks to Aaron’s ideas, feedback, and testing. Also, Aaron’s html2text is a very handy (and free) utility for turning HTML into Markdown-formatted plain text.

Nathaniel Irons, Dan Benjamin, Daniel Bogan, and Jason Perkins also deserve thanks for their feedback.
