# Glossary
The following section is concerned with defining the most common terminology used within this documentation, a list of terms in a particular domain of knowledge with the definition of those terms. 

## CI/CD
In software development CI stands for continuous integration and CD for continuous development. It is a software development practice where team members create and integrate their code frequently verified by an automation build including tests to detect errors and updates production environment code if no errors were detected.

## End User/s
An end user is a person for which a device, software or system was designed to interact with. In simple terms it is the person who uses the software or hardware.  

## Software development pipeline
A software development pipeline is a set of automated tasks from which computer code is passed through from task to task following a set plan to achieve different goals at each step.

## Code documentation
Code documentation is the process in which a programmer describes the code actions or how the system works.

## Cloud computing
Cloud computing is getting access to different computing resources as a service including databases, virtual machines, networking resources, software etc.  

## Software Development Automation
Software development automation is the process of transforming manual labour into automated systems which frees up developer time for more important tasks.  

## Software Repository
Software repository is a change management tracker for project code building up a history with all changes made to the code over time and promotes easy collaboration within developer circles.

## Web Application
A web application is a software program which functions on a web server and it is designed to be accessed by a browser with access to internet and installation free applications.

## Angular
Angular is a TypeScript-based open-source web application framework led by the Angular Team at Google and by a community of individuals and corporations. Angular is a complete rewrite from the same team that built AngularJS.

## TypeScript
TypeScript is a programming language developed and maintained by Microsoft. It is a strict syntactical superset of JavaScript and adds optional static typing to the language. TypeScript is designed for the development of large applications and transcompiles to JavaScript.